[Music]
seven simple swimming rules that will
save your life let's imagine you look
through the holiday photos of your
friend who has just returned from a sea
vacation what do you feel Envy no is it
fear well then you are in the same boat
as celebrities such as Carmen Electra
Snoop Dogg Sandra Bullock Richard
Branson all of these people are afraid
of water and it can become a big problem
if you just don't have much confidence
in your swimming skills our handy guide
will help you finally feel like a fish
in the water you can do it just make an
effort at the end of the video you will
find a small bonus that might save your
life one day number one overcoming fear
fear is one of the biggest obstacles
people have to overcome while learning
to swim you might be surprised to know
that 60% of Americans are afraid of deep
water and 45% are frightened of water
over their heads to deal with it and to
prove to the world how brave you are
there is a simple technique breathe
insufficient air take different poses
and feel how the water itself lifts your
body to the surface but don't forget
that the depth shouldn't be more than
one or one and a half meters one step at
a time
number two learning to breathe while
swimming now you can't argue that the
way you breathe is super important
during swimming can you so the next
logical thing is to learn to do it
correctly breathe in through your mouth
when you are above the water
[Music]
and breathe out through your nose or
mouth when under the water try to
develop a rhythm one more exercise to
practice is to hold your breath you
never know when it can come in handy
number three making friends with the
water if you perceive the water as
something hostile and dangerous revise
your attitude imagine it's your good
friend tender caring funny lie back on
the water surface spread out your arms
to your sides and relax feel how the
water supports your weight and slowly
moves you as if on big swings or you can
try lying on your front with a pair of
goggles firmly in place and watch the
life going on below it will help you to
feel more confident in the water this
way concentrating on the underwater
world will switch your attention and you
will relax
number four learning to use your legs if
you have managed all these activities
let's get down to swimming itself first
of all you need to learn to use your
legs this exercise is called the crawl
you need to stretch your arms and grab
the side of the pool or a swimming board
if you are steady move one leg up and
down and then repeat it with the other
it will turn out better if you bend your
legs only slightly trying to stretch out
your feet you should move only your hips
one more exercise is called breaststroke
to perform it you need to hold on to a
swimming board with your hands then
spread your legs outward and back in
different directions bending your knees
and push push forward don't get
embarrassed if you feel you look like a
frog it's meant to be like that
[Music]
number five learning to use your arms
congratulations if you can confidently
and rhythmically use your legs you have
passed this level time to move to the
next one it will show you how to use
your arms let's start with the crawl
again start working your legs using the
crawl method at the same time place your
arms alongside your torso and begin to
lift them over the water making half
circles in the air stretch back your
head as much as possible as your arms go
under the water they should draw half
circles at the level of your body and
then return to the starting position
mind that your hand should be stretched
out and you should paddle in sequence
now turn to your front
paddle using your arms one after the
other you should pass your arms under
the water in half circular motions every
time returning to the starting position
breathe in when your arm rises into the
air turning your head in its direction
what you shouldn't forget is to
coordinate the movements of your arms
and legs if you feel confident enough
you can practice breaststroke how do you
do it when pushing forward with your
legs stretch your arms forward as if
they were an arrow then spread your arms
out simultaneously in a symmetrical half
circular motion bringing them together
at your breastbone and then moving them
back to the starting position an
important thing is when you spread your
arms out lift your head above the water
and draw in air if you still don't
cherish the feeling of your head
underwater it's possible to swim with
your head always raised
number six treading water oh great you
feel like a professional now but don't
hurry to swim across the Bosporus you
still have things to learn for example
to tread water vertically to do this you
need to move your legs as with the
breaststroke
dragging water under you spread your
arms out to your sides and make circular
motions with them it will help you to
float another variant is to tuck in your
outstretched legs and imitate riding a
bike with your arms bent at the elbows
and moving in circular motions away from
your body
[Music]
number seven learning to swim underwater
now you can undoubtedly enjoy any
holiday near the sea to the fullest but
there's still one thing that can make
the experience even more interesting its
swimming underwater how to proceed to
this next step push off the floor and
dive into the water from where you're
standing place your arms in front of you
forming a narrow shape then pull your
chin down towards your chest but don't
touch it
push forward slightly in the direction
of some point in front of you when in
the water you can use the arm movements
from the breaststroke pushing forward
every time you stretch them out you can
use one leg at a time in sequence as you
do with the breaststroke and crawl or
move like a dolphin in waves if so you
will probably appreciate how flippers
can help in this style of swimming
[Music]
it's important safety comes first well
you seem to be ready to go to the big
water now but don't forget that safety
comes first and if you think it's a good
idea to swim after taking a glass of
wine
you are wrong don't swim if you have
consumed alcohol if you feel pain
dizziness cramps get out of the water
immediately don't follow others example
in jumping from a pier it can be
extremely dangerous swim only on
well-maintained sandy beaches in places
without strong currents where there are
lifeguards and where the water is
regularly checked finally as a promised
bonus there is some information not
everybody knows but everybody has to
when you are swimming in the sea there
might be a danger of getting caught in a
tide which will take you away from the
coast in the situation like this it is
crucial not to lose your head don't try
to fight the tide you'll be left with no
strength to get yourself to the shore it
will help much better if you start to
control your breath stop panicking
and try to approach the coast swimming
first parallel to it and then little by
little coming closer in a motion
diagonal to the time
well that's it let all your swims be
safe and enjoy the water don't forget to
hit the like button below the video and
click subscribe to join us on the bright
side we have a lot of helpful and
interesting videos for you
[Music]